So, let's start out now by
reviewing the valid modifiers for
the three reference types, namely
[class, interface, and enum].
We'll be talking about them quite
a bit over the next few videos.
So, the following are the access
modifiers valid for the three
reference types, again, [class,
interface, and enum]: If a type's
got the public modifier, its
source must be saved in a file
with the type name and extension.
Protected is only valid
for the nested type.
Private is only valid for nested type.
And where there's no modifier,
its package-private is implied.
Now, the other modifiers for
a reference type, so let's
look at abstract first.
From a classes point of view,
remember that an abstract class is
an incomplete or unfinished class.
Declaring a class abstract means
it's intended to be extended by a
subclass and it's abstract methods
implemented by the subclass.
As a result, you cannot
instantiate an abstract class.
From an interface point of
view, it's redundant to use this
modifier but not a compiler error.
And for an enum, it's not allowed
to use the abstract modifier.
Moving on to the static modifier,
from a class perspective, well, it's
not valid for a top level class.
We're going to be discussing this much further
in an upcoming video on nested classes.
From an interface perspective, it's
not valid for a top level interface
and it's redundant for inner
interfaces but not a compiler error.
And from an enum, it is not
valid for a top level enum
and it's redundant for nested
enums but not a compiler error.
Final modifier – well, this modifier
from a classes perspective is the
opposite of the abstract modifier.
Its definition is complete
and subclasses are not only
not necessary but undesired.
From an interface perspective,
it's not valid for any interface
to use the final modifier.
And for enum, it is not valid for
any enum to use the final modifier.
Lastly, strictfp – well, this modifier
makes any expression using float and
double variables defined in the class
or any subtype of the class FP-strict.
All right, so if I swing over to
a browser now and paste in a link.
You can review all the information
and rules for FP-strict on this page.
The link is in the resources section.
So to get back to the slides,
strictfp from an interface's
perspective is applicable for any
interface, and likewise for an enum,
it's also applicable for any enum.
Now the industry standard for
declaring multiple modifiers is to
list them in the order shown above.
In other words, first the access
modifier, followed by zero or
many of the other modifiers.
This is not a requirement and you can
see them in any order on the exam.
Plus, it's also not a compiler error.
So, it's important to understand
the differences between standard
practice and compiler errors.
The exam will test you
on the compiler errors.
So moving on down, the following
class declarations for top level
classes are compiler errors.
And I've got the code sample and the
description as to why it's an error.
Firstly, private final class
test left to right curly braces.
The private access modifier is not
valid for a top level class, any other
modifiers or code can be ignored.
So, if you see that in an exam.
Next, protected abstract class test
left to right curly braces – well,
the protected access modifier is
not valid for a top level class, any
other modifier or code can be ignored.
final abstract class tests left to
right curly braces - the modifier's
final and abstract are incompatible,
so thus this is a compile error.
static final class test left to
right curly braces – well, the
static modifier is not valid
for a top level class, any other
modifier or code can be ignored.
And the last one there, final
public final class test left to
right curly braces - modifiers
cannot be duplicated and that's a
reason why that's a compiler error.
So moving on to valid class
declarations, here's three samples.
Firstly, strictfp final public
class test left to right curly
braces - this is fine, in
other words, no compiler error.
Although, industry standard
would have you declare it as
public final strictfp class
test left to right curly braces.
Next final class test left to
right curly braces - package
private final class is fine.
And the last one, abstract public
class test left to right curly
braces - this isn't a compiler
error, the declaration is fine.
Although, the industry standard would
be defined as public abstract class
test left to right curly braces.
Right, so let's end the video here.
In the next one, we'll
get into some coding.
See you in the next video.